---
title: "Machine Learning Resources"
date: "2018-10-06 22:07"
published: false
featured: false
---

+ [How to build a recommendation engine in R](http://www.data-mania.com/blog/how-to-build-a-recommendation-engine-in-r/), a marketing data science demo

# Other people doing things
##  The UCI machine learning repository
##  Kaggle, a data science competition website
##  Yelp data challenge

## Metis Data Science online course

### Exploring Deep Learning Software

Deep learning, or neural networks, are popular because they can scale with enormous datasets. Students get hands-on experience using a popular software package to perform a common deep learning task called general object detection.

### Handwritten Digit Recognition

Handwritten digit recognition is a classic machine learning problem with popular solutions implemented in ATMs, mobile banking apps (to automatically read checks), and postal services (to automatically sort mail). Students implement a multi-class classification scheme to perform digit recognition using real-world datasets.

### Building a Face Detection System

When using a smartphone to take pictures of other people, built-in face detection algorithms locate the faces within the camera viewfinder (usually by putting little squares around each one), so the camera knows where to focus the image. We will explore how the core piece of this machine learning algorithm works and students will get hands-on experience completing a prototype face detection system.

### Sentiment Analysis on Text Data

Gauging the general population's feelings about a product, company, or politician (referred to as sentiment analysis) is getting easier thanks to massive public datasets generated by social media sites like Twitter. Students practice performing sentiment analysis on real data to understand how it's done.

### Preventative Medicine and Healthcare Logistics

Can we predict who needs preventative care that could drastically improve -- if not save -- lives? Students mine a real-world dataset to determine individuals who most likely require preventative healthcare in order to avert catastrophic medical costs and consequences.
